So we're gonna add now some
interaction to our UIs.
And the first thing we're to do is
the buttons, make the buttons work, so
that when I click the button here,
let's just refresh the page.
When I click the button here, it'll move
between the various different states from
the fish, to the poop,
to the weather icon.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So head back over to VS Code,
make a new file and call it buttons.js.
Okay, we're gonna import something called
icons which we haven't created yet,
but we're about to from another
file called ./constants.
And then we're gonna do
a couple functions here.
The first one that we're gonna
do is toggle highlighted.
So const toggleHighlighted.
And I made this an arrow function.
Let's go ahead and
do that cuz this is how I would write it.
So it's gonna take in an icon, and
it's gonna take on whether I'm gonna
be showing or hiding that icon, right?
This is gonna be an arrow function.
So again, this is a ligature.
So if I put equal and
angle bracket together, my font combines
them together and it looks like an arrow.
So, whenever you see that,
that's two characters together.
And then I'm gonna do
document.querySelector.
This is going to allow me to
select an item from the DOM,
from the HTML part of this, right?
And I'm going to be looking for, and
notice I'm using backticks here,
which is the one that is the tilde
next to the one on your keyboard.
And I'm going to be looking for
icons, icon.
And then outside of that
I'm gonna put -icon.
Okay, so what this dollar sign curly brace
is saying like inside of here I have
JavaScript.
So in this case, icon is gonna
be a number, this right here.
And this icons is going to be a list
of all the various different icons
that are available.
So it'll be, in this case,
fish, poop, and weather, right?
So and then it'll toggle these particular
icons as highlighted or not highlighted.
So I'm gonna do .class list.toggle.
And then I'm gonna be toggling
the CSS class highlighted.
And whether or not that's show.
So now anytime that I call,
it will look like this toggleHighlighted,
Fish, true.
This would make the fish icon
on the DOM highlighted, right?
Or if I did like poop, false,
this would unhighlight it, right?
So that's kinda what that function does.
So again, this is an arrow function, and
I could have just as well done this.
So now it's actually a function body,
right?
But because it's just a one liner,
I'm welcome to just,
I can leave out those curly braces.
So it's up to you what's more readable,
I like this but
it's up to you if you don't like that.
Notice when I save it, it reorganizes
itself, that's prettier in action there.
Okay, I'm gonna do export default,
Function init buttons.
And then it's gonna take in
a function called handle user action.
Okay, so this is a function that's gonna
handle all of our user interactions.
So we're gonna use closures
again to keep track of this.
So I'm gonna say let selectedI = 0.
This is the currently selected
icon like the index of it.
The first one that's gonna be
selected is going to be the 0th one,
which will be the fish one.
And then I'm gonna have a function
here called button click,
function buttonClick and
it's gonna take in an event.
And we're just gonna say
if event.target.
So in my notes I actually have
this written differently.
So event is the name of the DOM event
that's gonna be coming in, right?
But I can actually select, If I do this
and I put curly braces inside of it,
I'm gonna pull the target out of
the event, which is what I've done here.
So instead of having event.target
I can just say target.
And target is gonna be the actual DOM
node that I've clicked on, right.
So for example, if I come back over here,
if I click on this,
it'll say this is the target,
the left button will be the target.
The middle button will be the target,
the right will be the target.
So this is the DOM node
that I've clicked on.
So if I say target.classlist.contains,
left-btn.
So if I have clicked on the left button,
is basically what this says.
Then toggleHighlighted, SelectedIcon.
And turn that off, false.
So the currently selected one,
turn off the highlighting.
And then you're gonna set a new
selected icon, so (selectedIcon
= 2 + selectedIcon).
I'm gonna use what's called the modelo or
modulo or however you want to call it, but
it's the percentage sign there.
ICONS.length; So
let's talk about what this means.
Modulo is a really interesting operator.
It's kind of like if you've ever done
long division before, and you ever had
to do like the remainder, so like ten
divided by three was three remainder one.
What modular returns here
is the remainder, right?
So if I did 10%3,
let's put this above here, 10%3.
What's the remainder of 3 divided by 10 or
10 divided by 3?
1, right, so this would equal to 1.
So this is really useful for
our lists because we're gonna
be looping around right.
So, if I come back to the game,
if I go to the right to,
or if I click the left button right now,
I expect weather to be highlighted.
So I want it to loop around.
And that's what the modular is really
used for because if I say plus 2,
in this particular case, if I did plus 2,
and let's say it was the last one,
so I was like here,
it would loop back around to this one.
Does it make sense kind of?
It's a little mathy.
You could also do, I believe,
negative one here.
And I think that should work as well.
But the modulo math to me was
clearer in my brain if I did two.
So that's why I ended up doing that way.
When I'm doing modular in math,
I try to stay positive,
just in general, stay positive with life.
But beyond that, it's easier for
me to picture in my brains, so
that's why I did the plus two.
Okay, and then now that I've selected
the correct one, I'm gonna call
toggleHighlighted again because I've
changed the selectedIcon up here.
And I just call selectedIcon and true,
cuz that will be then
highlighting the correct one.
Then we're gonna do an else if,
that's gonna be exactly the same for
but for
the right
target.classlist.constainsright-btn.
And we're gonna do the exact same sort
of song and dance toggleHighlighted,
selectedIcon, false, and
then we're gonna do our math.
So we're gonna say selectedIcon = 1 +,
cuz it's gonna go in the other direction,
1 + selectedIcon % ICONS.length.
So anytime that you're thinking
about looping back around in
programming and since,
the modulo is super useful for that.
All right.
And then else,
We are going to do handleUserAction,
and we're gonna pass back
the icon that was selected.
So we're gonna take in here a function
from our gameState, and any time that
the user tries to do something, right,
they click on the feed button or
they click on the poop button, we're
going to respond to that user action.
But we're gonna handle that inside of
gameState and not inside of the buttons.
So we're kinda separating our concerns of
this is happening in the user interface,
this is happening inside
of the game logic.
Okay, so all of that looks good.
Then we just need to do,
document.getElementBy,
we're actually going to query selector,
query selector.
And we're gonna look for
the .buttons, right?
The HTML buttons container
that we created.
And we're gonna add an event listener.
Anytime that it's clicked, we're going
to call buttons or buttonClick rather.
So now all we have to do is initialize
this, we just call this function and
the buttons are gonna have this
event listener tied to them.